hello everyone
my name is Barry through and I'm the
executive director of gray area and
welcome to the eighth annual gray area
Festival thank you for being here in the
morning the fiery Crucible in which true
heroes are forged so appreciate you all
being here
um
of course our first in-person gray area
Festival in two years
um so we're all excited to have
everybody back uh
the we're delighted to work with uh
Andrew mcloone and The mcluhan Institute
to put on this program called distant
early warning Marshall mcluhan his
grandfather had a metaphor for artists
um in relation to this cold war system
of Radars in the northern hemisphere
that we're supposed to detect threats
before they got too close sort of a
concept that's uh a little too close to
home again these days
um
so there's a lot going on out there in
the world right now so we're um
thoughtful about uh our friends in
Ukraine and what's going on there our
friends in Iran and what's going on
there
so hopefully the stuff that we're
talking about here today can help sort
of like foment some thoughts about how
we as a community
can engage with the things happening in
the world and the power that artists
have to contribute and motivate and
think through what's happening
um
you know this whole conference in
mcluhan's uh
understanding media so we at we here at
gray area you know try and do a couple
of things one is
give artists agency with new tools and
Technologies to help them be able to
engage and and with some of the most
important things happening in society
and the other is to demonstrate the
value and power of artistic thinking and
engage it with real world social impact
things happening so the whole program
today
um I hope sort of brings those threads
to light
um
as part of that the other thing we
should acknowledge at is um we're on uh
ancestral Homeland uh of the ramatu
shaloni who are the you know original
inhabitants of this area
um they haven't forgotten their
responsibility to caretake for their
community and land and Earth here and we
hope to also sharing that responsibility
for our community
um and so
we acknowledge that and uh hoped also
positively contribute there
um
I have bad news and good news
the bad news is that uh Alex kitnick
can't be here today
um which is a bummer because
um his book called this and early
warnings that talks directly about
mcluhan and his relationship with
contemporary artists
helped foam into a lot of the thinking
around this we'll
uh bring him back and do something later
but he couldn't end up being here today
the good news is that my friend Kyle
McDonald who who we're collaborating
with at gray area on a project he's
going to talk about was able to step in
um
and we'll welcome him here first here
today I don't think I'm forgetting
anything besides to say uh thank you to
the whole team
um which I'll do many times here we uh
really uh the exhibition is fantastic
the program's fantastic it took a lot of
people's effort that I'll acknowledge
more in depth later but let's give a
preliminary Round of Applause
and I for everybody here it's really
been a lot it's been the first one of
these in a couple of years and it's a
major undertaking which we couldn't do
without sponsors there I saw
peripheral
other thing I should say mcluhan
Institute of course Andrew he's here
everybody say hi and engage with the
work he's doing to advance and protect
the family sort of knowledge and Legacy
um compared to Institute who were doing
a big project called sea change with we
have a panel at the end of the day today
whistleblowers for change that they've
helped support and the um workshops on
Sunday are all projects from our the sea
change lab which focuses on new models
for cross-cultural exchange so we're
grateful for their support National
endowments for the Arts good friends
there's still Public Funding for art in
the U.S somehow so that's happening in
hotel Zeta uh gives us a cool rate on
blocks of hotel rooms and uh we hope
that partnership continues
think that's it for now and if I forget
anything
I'll come back up here and say it
because I got a mic all day it doesn't
it doesn't matter